---
title: Glossary
description: iExec terms glossary
---

# Glossary

## A

### Application

A computer program designed to automate processes. An application is generally
under the control of different communities such as product managers, project
owners, or data center administrators. An application can also be decentralized
thanks to the blockchain: see “DApp”.

## B

### Bellecour Sidechain

iExec’s product sidechain. It is linked to Ethereum Mainnet with a bridge
allowing for the transfer of assets between networks. It allows iExec to be used
without paying Ethereum gas fees.

See “Sidechain and xRLC” for more information.

### Beneficiary

An entity indicated by the requester that benefits from the result of a
computational execution. It can be the requester, a third party, a smart
contract etc.

## C

### Confidential Computing / Trusted Computing

Ensures computation confidentiality through mechanisms of memory encryption at
the hardware level (in a Trusted Execution Environment or TEE). It can be used
so that only authorized code can run inside a protected area and manipulate its
data. In some cases, ensuring that code runs correctly without any third party
altering the execution is even more important than hiding the computation's
data.

This concept is called Trusted Computing. These guarantees are critical for a
decentralized cloud where code is being executed on a remote machine, that is
not controlled by the requester. They are also required to prevent leakage while
monetizing data sets.

See ”Trusted Execution Environments ('TEE')” for more information

## D

### Decentralized Application (DApp)

An application built on a decentralized network that combines a smart contract
and a frontend user interface. A DApp has its backend code running on a
decentralized peer-to-peer network. Contrast this with a traditional application
where the backend code is running in fully controlled environments.

See “Application” for more information.

### DApp Provider

Writes, configures, and deploys applications on the iExec platform. Those
applications can be DApps or legacy (traditional) applications. Providers can
make their applications available for free or ask for a fixed fee for each use
of their application.

### Dataset

A dataset is a collection of related sets of information that is composed of
separate elements, such as numbers, semantic-data or variables, that can be
manipulated by a computer for practical application. For example, data within
the medical industry can be use by healthcare professionals, care providers,
insurers, and government agencies.

### Dataset Provider

Owns datasets that can be monetized in the iExec marketplace.

### Deal

An agreement between all parties (requester and providers) in the iExec network.
A deal is created when requester and providers’ orders are matched in the
marketplace and recorded in the PoCo smart contract.

## E

### Ethereum

A decentralized, open-source blockchain with smart contract functionality.
Ethereum proposes using blockchain technology to maintain a decentralized
payment network and to store computer code that can be used to power
decentralized applications.

### Enclave

In confidential computing jargon, an "enclave" is the special memory zone
protected by the CPU. For simplicity's sake, we can refer to private regions of
memory defined by Intel® SGX application as "enclaves".

### EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine)

The Ethereum's execution environment. This is the virtual machine which executes
the smart contracts on the blockchain.

### Explorer (iExec Explorer)

Tracks and displays all transactions occurring on iExec’s platform. It provides
detailed information on the latest deals, tasks, apps, and datasets deployed.

### ERC-20

A standard for fungible tokens. This property makes each token exactly the same
in type and value as another token.

### ERC-721

A standard for non-fungible tokens. This property makes each token unique and
capable of having a different value from another token from the same Smart
Contract. This uniqueness may come from a variety of sources, including age,
rarity, or appearance.

### iExec Academy

iExec’s content aggregator where people can find content related to the project,
including articles, demos, documentation, and tutorials.

## I

### ICO (Initial Coin Offering)

A fundraising mechanism where a blockchain-based startup mints its own native
crypto asset in exchange for other cryptocurrencies. The goal is to raise funds
and, in turn, create a community of incentivized users who want the project to
succeed so that the presale tokens gain in value.

## M

### Mainnet

An independent blockchain running its own peer-to-peer network with its own
technology and protocol (e.g. Bitcoin and Ethereum). It is a live blockchain
where its own cryptocurrencies or tokens have value (when compared against a
testnet network).

### Marketplace (iExec)

The iExec Marketplace connects resource providers with resource users, allowing
anyone to monetize or rent computing power, datasets, and applications. The
marketplace is a smart contract that acts as escrow anytime you need the network
to exchange computing assets.

### Minting

A decentralized method that enables to generate a new token without the
involvement of a central authority. It can either be a non-fungible token or a
crypto coin.

Please note that minting an NFT (non-fungible token) is a different procedure.
To mint an NFT, users usually sign up with a cryptocurrecny wallet on an NFT
marketplace (or other platform). Then that create an NFT by uploading a file and
paying for the creation. Once the transaction is verified, a new NFT is minted.
This process to add NFTs to a blockchain allows creators to sell their photos,
videos, and digital 3D objects.

See “ERC-721” for more information.

### MREnclave

The MREnclave is a hash value that identifies every enclave. It is obtained from
the content of memory pages and access rights. The MREnclave is available after
the TEE application is built.

## N

### nRLC

N in nRLC stands for nano RLC.

nRLC is the smallest subdivision of the RLC token, 1 RLC equals to 10^9 nRLC.

nRLC is the base unit for the PoCo, orders prices in a deal are calculated in
nRLC.

See “Deal and PoCo” for more information.

## O

### Oilers

A term of affection used to designate the iExec community. Oilers are said to be
holding “digital oil”. This term could also be in reference to the iExec
whitepaper that states: “ iExec introduces a new paradigm in cloud computing: it
will allow the trading of computing resources as commodities; in the same way we
may observe with resources such as oil, gold or rice.”

### Oracle

Data feeds that connect the off-chain world to blockchain products. Oracles act
as a link between data that exists in traditional web2 and blockchain smart
contracts, and are used to query data in smart contracts.

### Oracle Factory

The iExec developer interface which allows users to create custom oracles. This
interface permits users to create oracles for any type of data, without
requiring coding experience, in a few minutes directly from their browser.

## P

### PoCo (Proof of Contribution)

The protocol used by iExec for consensus over off-chain computing.

The iExec platform provides a network where application providers, workers, and
users can gather and work together. The fully decentralized nature of iExec
implies that no single agent is trusted by default, and that those agents
require incentives to contribute correctly. PoCo is a protocol designed to
provides trust in an open and decentralized environment of untrusted machines.
It also orchestrates the different contributions to the iExec network, ensuring
payments are always fair and timely.

## R

### Requester

A person who buys the execution of a task in the iExec marketplace.

### RLC (Run on lots of computers)

An Ethereum (ERC20) token launched during the iExec ICO in 2017. This utility
token is used on the iExec marketplace to buy and sell computing assets.

### Remote attestation

As explained by
[Intel](https://software.intel.com/en-us/sgx/attestation-services), the remote
attestation is the process that happens before any exchange between a remote
provider and an enclave. It allows the provider to verify that the expected
software is running in an Intel® SGX-protected way, as well as getting other
details about the application being attested. If the attestation is successful,
a secure communication channel is established between the provider and the
enclave, and secrets can safely land in the latter.

### Roadmap

Describes business and technical developments towards the adoption of the iExec
protocol. The timeline for this roadmap is organized by quarter for an overview
on ongoing projects and the future work. It is available here
<https://trello.com/b/oSCT5z09/iexec-adoption-roadmap>

## S

### Scheduler

Organizes the work distribution for workers in a worker pool.

### SDK (Software Development Kit)

A set of tools for interaction with smart contracts and the iExec’s marketplace.
It is available as a CLI and JS library. Access SDK here:
<https://github.com/iExecBlockchainComputing/iexec-sdk>

### SGX (Secure Guard Extension by Intel)

Is a confidential computing technology developed by Intel.

See “Confidential Computing” for more information.

### Sidechain

A controlled blockchain deployed over a data center and linked to Ethereum
Mainnet with a bridge permitting to transfer assets between the two. iExec’s
sidechain “Bellecour” is iExec’s mainnet bridged to ethereum mainnet.

### Smart Contracts

The fundamental building blocks of Ethereum applications. They are computer
programs stored on the blockchain that allows us to convert traditional
contracts into digital parallels. Smart contracts are very logical - following
an if this then that structure. This means they behave exactly as programmed and
cannot be changed.

Nick Szabo used the term "smart contract" in 1994, when he wrote “an
introduction to the concept” and, in 1996, “an exploration of what smart
contracts could do”.

### SMS (Secret Management Service)

An encrypted database where users' secrets are stored.

### sRLC

S in sRLC stands for Staked RLC.

The sRLC balance of an account reflects the amount of RLC deposited by the
account on the iExec PoCo smart contract. The sRLC balance of an account is
managed by the PoCo smart contracts to ensure payments across the platform
users. At any time, sRLC can be converted to RLC in the wallet by a withdrawal
operation.

### Staking (of RLC)

A mechanism in PoCo that involves a certain amount of Workers’ RLC being
‘locked-up’ during the execution of a task. To prevent malicious workers, the
locked RLC is staked as a security deposit. Workers who computed a false result
will lose their stake.

See “PoCo” for more information.

## T

### Task

A task within iExec is an instance where computing power is required.

### Testnet

Used by programmers and developers to test and troubleshoot the aspects and
features of a blockchain network to ensure it is ready for mainnet launch.

### Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)

A hardware secure area used to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, and
ownership of code and data.

See” Confidential Computing ” for more information

## W

### Whitepaper

Explain the purpose and technology behind a project. Producing a whitepaper is a
key step for a crypto startup to help investors understand technical information
about its concept; whitepaper usually include a roadmap for how the project
plans to grow and succeed. iExec’s whitepaper is available
[here](https://www.iex.ec/whitepaper)

### Workers

Individuals or companies who own computing resources and are willing to make
them available for the computation of tasks against payments in RLC. Similarly
to blockchain miners, workers want a simple solution that will make their
computer part of a large infrastructure that will take care of the details for
them.

### Worker Pools

Organize the contributions of Workers. A worker pool is a group of machines,
often with similar characteristics, that is led by a Pool Manager.

### Worker Pool Manager

In charge of proposing available computing resources (workers) to task
requesters.

## X

### xRLC

X in xRLC stands for eXternal.

A xRLC is the native token of iExec sidechain (it means it is used as ETH on
ethereum mainnet). A xRLC is a RLC bridged on an external sidechain and only the
bridge can mint\* xRLC.

The bridge helps maintain the parity between the main chain and the external
chain. For example, one xRLC on the sidechain has the same value as 1 RLC on the
mainchain.

See “Sidechain, Bellecour Sidechain or Minting” for more information.
